All right so let's take a look on how you
would do that with these two queries,
we're gonna get all expenses or
you can limit them I don't know
why I said well but it's fine.
So expenses collection, where expenses
are not categorized as funds.
So I can say where category is not in and
I wrote this almost to fit right in,
except for the end.
And so now it'll be able to see this one,
two, three, four,
five, so it's five out of
the ten that I can use for that.
Usually, I'll format these down on all one
per line, so it's a little more readable.
For now, let's refresh and
that let's see here can I remember food,
clothes, gifts,
home personal enough food sorry.
Fun clothes gifts home personal and
yeah so ton of stuff but
it's mostly food and healthcare and not
housing so not those ones as we can see.
So the not in operator right there
helps you eliminate a bunch of stuff.
Now for the more complex query.
We wanna get all expenses that
are categorized as food so
expenses, collection, where,
category is equal to food.
You also can do.
In food as well, it's the same thing,
this will just give you more options.
So just depending on what you're trying
to express and then we want to say where.
Date is greater than December,
thank you very much not January
greater than new date or
that occurred in December so
that is greater than 11/31/2021.
And date is less than 1/1/2022, and
now for this last one we wanna see but
as not on 12/26,
you can say where date I can say not equal
to new date 12/26/2021.
Yes, all right, save that.
And as we scroll through we don't
have any date for 12/26, and
just to show that it would be there,
because if my dataset is correct.
We have all these 26 ones when I take it
out so the not equals and you can even
do for multiple dates you could do not in
and then provide a whole array of dates.
So if imagine some calendar picker where
you're trying to find certain things when
someone's saying exclude these dates from
my selection those would all become part
of the noddin query.